In this lecture you will be learning about the event sourcing better that will help services keep track
of state changes of objects in a reliable way.
The main difference in event sourcing when compared to using a normal database to insert update and
delete records is that we use an event store and versus events at services are able to subscribe to
different types of events handled by the events or so in this way the events store acts as a form of
message broker in the example illustrated here taken from an e-commerce scenario.
When the product service updates the price of product a product database it also publishes an event
with these details to the events.
The product search service and the product recommendation service have subscribed with the events or
to receive price updated events.
And therefore when the event store receives the message published by the product service the product
has had its price up dated to $5 it publishes this message to go out the product or service and the
product recommendation service here is an example of how all events related to product a good beer in
the event store.
The event store is able to reconstruct the state of an object at any particular time.
While you were playing the events affecting the object after that time.
So for example if we wanted to know what the state of product was on the left and me to those at the
meeting at 11:00 p.m. or process the events that occurred up to this time we don't think that we think
the three latest events since these occurred the next day for optimisation purposes to reduce loading
time the event store camporee or the store snapshots of objects in this case to get the objects going
state the most recent snapshot is loaded and then on to the events that occurred after the snapshot
needs to be processed to reconstruct the data state the frequency at which snapshots are taken is usually
decided by the development team and depends on many factors including resources available.
The number of objects that would require a snapshot and the frequency of events for each object the
benefits of using an event sourcing better are that it provides reliable publishing of events in any
event driven architecture since all events are saved this provides an audit log and we can determine
the state of an object at any particular time in the past by replaying events up to that period.
However the spending comes with a steep learning curve for the development team and it also results
in addition to complexity including data that will usually require the use of Command query responsible
to segregation in the application by subscribing to events from the message store.
This would therefore mean that the data being queried is eventually consistent which is not always acceptable.
It is an example of how events can be used to solve the problem of having to join data located across
multiple services when we are using the database service better which we discussed in the databases
lecture as you may have noted.
This is a similar example as we used to date of Jesus lecture with the product recommendation service
which requires order data from the order service and product information from the product service whenever
the product service updates product information it publishes an event to the event store which then
publishes it.
So the product recommendation service which has subscribed to these events seminary the order service
publishes an event to the events store when an order is created and the events store them publishes
this sort of product recommendation service.
In this way the product recommendation service is kept up to date with product and order information
that it requires to keep and updated in memory view to generate product recommendations to customers
without needing to send queries for large data sets.
So the product service and the order service.